Add post about SRE on sprint 80 (#266)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2020-07-31-we-do-sre.md

---
layout: post
title: Yes, we do SRE!
category: development
---

> How do you think we keep our reference instance up and running?

Reviewer: We're missing the [lede](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Ws).

Author: I revisit the whole document, do you still think _lede_ is not obvious in the text?

Reviewer: Before going into details about SRE in the various sections below, we want to communicate:

- Who: we (the Build Solutions team)
- What: practice Site Reliability Engineering (SRE)
- When: ???
- Where: ???
- Why: to keep our reference instance up and running

Author: Thanks for your explanation @dmarcoux , I think I understand now. What do you think about this?
https://github.com/openSUSE/obs-landing/pull/266/files#diff-32d86a6a39e1811f72ad3f4ec570c8f5R7-R13

Reviewer: Good work :)

Sorry for not directly pointing out to what I meant in my first comment.

> Of course, we do Site Reliability Engineering (SRE).

Reviewer 2: I don't think many people who read this blog (our users) do operations. You would have to explain what this "name" means.

Author: Corrected

We always have an eye on what's going on with the hosts, services and applications we are responsible for.

> And you, people from the community, can also do so. OBS is public and so are some of the dashboards we use to ensure Site Reliability.

Reviewer 2: That sounds as if *we* would not be "from the community". We are part of the community.

Author: Rephrased.

We take the data we need to do SRE from five different points:

* Logging
* Exception Tracking
* System/Services Monitoring
* Application Performance Monitoring (APM)
* Application Health Monitoring (AHM)

> You can read more about all of them starting [here](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/wiki/Site-Reliability).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can read more about all of them starting [in our github wiki](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/wiki/Site-Reliability).
```

Author: Done

> During the last few weeks we have deeply analyzed what we are measuring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the last few weeks, we have deeply analyzed what we are measuring
```

Author: Done

> and we have improved our documentation regarding this topic.

Reviewer 2: Why have we done this?

Author: Some reasons have been added at the beginning of the section.

We have also set up some new alerts from the different dashboards.
From now on we are better informed when something goes wrong in our reference instance.

<img src="/images/posts/sprint_80_grafana_panel.png" alt="Screenshot of Grafana panel"/>

> Stay tuned, we will share with you any achievements on this area.

Reviewer 3: @saraycp dont forget to include the little partial about the feedback `{% include partials/_how-to-give-us-feedback.md %}`

Author: Done

---
layout: post
title: Yes, we do SRE!
category: development
---

How do you think we keep our reference instance up and running?

We practice Site Reliability Engineering (SRE).

## Operations & SRE

> Deployment, continuous integration or monitoring are well-known terms we inmediatelly connect with operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployment, continuous integration or monitoring are well-known terms we immediately connect with operations.
```

title: Yes, we do SRE!
category: development
---

How do you think we keep our reference instance up and running?

We, the Open Build Service contributors, practice Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) to guarantee the service's health and availability.
In the last couple of weeks, we have paid even more attention to this vital part of our job.
As result, we now have our SRE process better documented, we do new measurements and we are better informed about problems thanks to
newly implemented alerts.

## Operations & SRE

Deployment, continuous integration or monitoring are well-known terms we immediately connect with operations.
They are part of OBS life cycle as we follow DevOps philosophy. But apart from that, we also do practice
Site Reliability Engineering.

We can say SRE tries to manage IT operations efficiently.
Where DevOps focuses on ensuring an effective deployment and avoiding system downtime, among others,
SRE focuses on the post-failure situation analyzing the causes and aiming to maximize uptime and stability.

After deployment, SRE makes use of monitoring tools to find out where automation is crucial to improving a system’s health and availability.

## SRE in OBS

> Introducing SRE into the OBS operations makes it possible for us to know and manage the state of the deployment,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introducing SRE into the OBS operations makes it possible for us to know and manage the state of the deployments. Through continuous deployment's we have

```

> Introducing SRE into the OBS operations makes it possible for us to know and manage the state of the deployments,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Introducing SRE into the OBS operations makes it possible for us to know and manage the state of the deployments.
```

> through continuous deployment have quicker feedback loops about the code we have deployed and hence avoid deployment downtime in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Through continuous deployment's we've quicker feedback loops about the code we have deployed and hence avoid  downtimes in the future.
```

Reviewer 3: To many times the word 'deploy', maybe the last one is not needed :)

Reviewer: If the line 28 is its own sentence, I would suggest this instead:

```suggestion
Through continuous deployment, we have quicker feedback loops about the code we have deployed and hence avoid deployment downtime in the future.
```

Abbreviating the verb `have` when it's not an auxiliary is quite uncommon. So I would be against the suggestion from @krauselukas.

`deployment's` is wrong. `'s` is added for possessive nouns and it's not the case here. Have a look at this [article](https://www.thepunctuationguide.com/apostrophe.html) on the subject.

Author: Exactly. I corrected as Dany suggested.
@krauselukas I dropped the last "deployment" word, I think is ok anyway.

Reviewer 3: :+1:

> It also puts the OBS on the path of observability where the team is able to ask arbitrary questions about our app/deployment without - and this is the key part - having to know ahead of time what we wanted to ask. The deeper we drill into the OBS code base, the more complex the issues will become, the more we will encounter unknown unknowns. Problems we never have faced before that require the team to ask questions they have never asked before. And the infrastructure needs to support this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It also puts the OBS on the path of observability where the team is able to ask arbitrary questions about our app/deployment without - and this is the key part - having to know ahead of time what we need to ask for. The deeper we drill into the OBS code base, the more complex the issues will become, the more we will encounter unknown unknowns. Problems we never have faced before that require the team to ask questions they have never asked before. And the infrastructure needs to support this.
```

Reviewer 3: @saraycp last suggestion :sweat_smile:

Author: I wouldn't change it.

Author: Changed
